# Project Specification
The program will take mazes generated by [Daedalus](https://www.astrolog.org/labyrnth/daedalus.htm) and the user can then solve the mazes with the given algorihms. The algorithms that I will implement are wallfollower(Left-hand/Right-hand), Dead-end filling and Trémaux algorithm. These are all maze solving algorithms and the main point here is trying to compare the performance of each algorithm and also how good a path each algorithm finds.

The mazes created with Daedalus will be in the form of bitmap-images(.bmp), where the entrance to the maze is always on the top row and the exit is always on the bottom. The walls will be black and the passages are white.

If I have the time I will implement more algorithms to compare, but for now I feel that the three stated above are sufficient in order to produce an interesting result.

## Datastructures & Algorithms used
As specified in the course details, I will only be using arrays, primitive types and strings.
With these I will create the data structures and algorithms I need.
These are:
  * Wallfollower algorithm
  * Trémaux algorithm
  * Dead-end filling algorithm
  * Node-class to represent nodes in a graph
  
## Why did I choose these?
The algorithms I chose are pure maze solving algorithms and also interesting to me. There is also the performance aspect which I find interesting.

## Problems to solve
* Finding a path from start to end in maze
* Creating a graph of nodes from the .bmp
* Implementing Wallfollower, Trémaux and Dead-end filling
* Showing the found route in the terminal window in a clear manner
   * Alternatively displaying that no route was found
* Handling a situation where no route is found

## Program I/O
### Input:
 A .bmp image of a maze generated in daedalus.
### Output:
 A .bmp image he original maze with a route mapped out on it.

## Expected time and space complexities
### Time complexity
* Reading the file and constructing a graph O(n)
* Wallfollower should run in polynomial time, given that it basically is a variation of DFS, which runs in polynomial time. Same goes for Trémaux algorithm
* Dead-end end algorithm goes through the entire maze and is therefore of time complexity O(n)

### Space complexity
* Wallfollower is constant O(1), as there is no other data structures needed other than the maze in order to traverse it.
* Trémaux algorithm only keeps track of the paths it has travelled, which can be stored in the nodes. Therefore its space complexity will be constant as there are no extra lists needed.
* Dead-end keeps a track of dead ends, which will need some extra space. Therefore the upper bound of the space complexity of this algorithm is O(n)
